STEVE: Jon we're gonna head down
and see Dave Brown.
Dave just joined us from our Microsoft
Technology Center in the UK
and he's down here with the
Samsung SUR40 with PixelSense.
So Dave, show us what
you've got here.
DAVE: Thanks, Steve.
This is the Samsung SUR40
with Microsoft PixelSense
and I'm going to demonstrate briefly
how I can use natural user interaction
to navigate around the solar system and
the surrounding universe.
So what I've got here is a chromeless UI,
but I can use touch to start navigating
around the interface
and I can use a single touch
or can use pinch-zoom type gestures,
multitouch to rotate or zoom the camera
or combinations of all of the above.
I can come up with some really fast, fluid
smooth gestures that would be
really hard to do with a keyboard
and a mouse.
But I probably add some controls sooner
or later so i can just drag a control in
from the edge of the screen, and this is
a multi-directional platform so I can
drag in controls from any side of the
screen and they will face the
appropriate direction for a user
on that side of the device.
And actually I can change settings around
the camera here, so for example I can
pan the camera around in this way,
and actually I can get really in close here.
Let's have a look at Lake Ontario there.
Anyone here from Canada?
Anyone from Canada?
I can move out and look at the horizon
from a point in space above Lake Ontario
really, really easily just using touch.
Let's zoom out a little bit more here
you can see I can use this dial control
to do that, I can use a single touch
or I can use multitouch to do that.
If I drag in another control here
this control let's me change
the field of view the camera.
I can use one hand to change this control,
the other hand to change this control.
And you can start coming up with
some really interesting user interfaces
when you've got this
many touch points.
JON: Could give you a bit
of a god-complex though.
DAVE: So let's zoom out a little bit more
this is where the Moon is.
This is the inner Solar System
and I can drag the
background as well
as the control here
to come up with some
really fluid gestures.
STEVE: I think they like that Dave.
DAVE: Let's hop over to Saturn.
There's Saturn and its
rings and this is a live
simulation of the Solar System.
I can actually unpause this
turn up time to about a thousand times
and start looking around Saturn
and its moons as I change time.
So let's zoom out even
further at this point
and one of the great
things about PixelSense
is that it let's the
device actually see
what's going on above it, so I've got
these transparent plastic discs here.
When I place these on the screen
what you can see projected
through them is a little crosshair.
I can move these around,
they're directional
so if you're on a particular side of the
device you can orientate it appropriately
and I can get information about the
stars underneath that crosshair
by either moving the background, or
moving the plastic discs around.
Only PixelSense can actually see
what's going on above the table.
STEVE: So this entire panel, the entire
screen has a set of cameras as pixels.
DAVE: Absolutely.
Two million cameras are embedded
into the screen and we stitch them
together producing an image of
what's going on above the device.
So finally, let's just have
a look at the constellations.
Most of us are familiar with the
constellations, at least the lines.
Let's zoom out a little bit.
I really like to show the artwork here
so if I show...
these are beautiful images that were
drawn about three hundred years ago
by a guy called Johannes Hevelius,
they're etchings.
I can get really close in here
and have a look at these beautiful,
beautiful images around the sky.
So let's just pop back to Earth again,
I'll use another control to do that.
You can see it still spinning around here
so I better turn down time
just a little bit.
I'll just pause time
and we've got a few
satellites in orbit here
so I'll just select this one here
we'll zoom in...
What have we got here?
Some of you might
recognize this actually...
It's amazing what you can find
in orbit around the planet Earth.
[Applause]
STEVE: Dave, that's terrific.
I think this is just a great
example, Jon, of this trend that
we're fascinated by at Microsoft
the blending of the
physical and the digital.
The ability to put these
physical objects
on a digital device.
JON: That's an amazing interface,
I'm sure lots of applications.
What does one of these cost?
DAVE: These are about
eight thousand dollars
so come and talk to
us at the SIC
we have several
PixelSense tables there
have a look at the apps
and find out which partners are using
them the rest of the week.
STEVE: Fantastic. Thanks, Dave.
JON: Alright!
DAVE: Thank you.
[Applause]